Rebuild: Dungeons

Explore and clear dungeons to gather resources, recruit wandering adventurers to your cause.
Rebuild And Survive

World has been destroyed by evil forces who live underground. They have pitted the world with caverns, caves and dungeons to live in.
They have scorched most of the "overland", preventing most things from growing.
This means resources are all in the "underland" where they live.

You are running a settlement of survivors, trying to rebuild and survive.



Dungeon mechanics:
Stealing ideas from "Extraction Shooters". So basically you get better rewards to longer you explore, but if you die you lose everything.#]

Roguelite progression through dungeons. Items and weapons gathered in a dungeon can be salvaged, repaired and upgraded to use on future adventures
Parties can be formed by adventurers you recruit, these can perform "patrols" on dungeons you have already cleared to reward general resources
Clearing dungeons yourself rewards general AND special resources, and claims the land for your settlement
The further you explore out, the harder the dungeons become, but the greater the rewards

So once you conquered an area there was a chance over time it could be raided by an enemy gang and you'd have to get to that area and defend against a raid
So you have that with a dungeon but if you completely clear a dungeon you can install seals with special items and that blocks the evil from re-entering
Which could then allow for the restoration of the ground around the dungeon
Converting protective barriers and stuff into farm equipement or something

Cause then you could say clear floor 1 of a dungeon, get the occasional raid and a few general items over time but if you go through and clear everything you start to get reclaimed land, and a chance of special items being mined

Town mechanics:
There are 2 types of resources to collect. "General" and "Special"
General = Wood, grain, stone etc
Special = Key items needed for upgrades, buildings. These define the progression curve


Loads of potential ideas:
"reclaim" the overland above dungeons you have Cleared, removed the scorched earth and allowing for general resource growth?
Multiplayer?
Metroid-like progression, where some dungeons will only be partially Cleared until you get certain items/abilities to further explore them
